Scientists have hypothesized that the availability of phosphocreatine (PCr) and its ratio to inorganic phosphate (Pi) in cerebral tissue form a substrate of wakefulness. It follows then, according to this hypothesis, that the exhaustion of PCr and the decline in the ratio of PCr to Pi form a substrate of fatigue. We used 31P-magnetic resonance spectroscopy (31P-MRS) to investigate quantitative levels of PCr, the γ-signal of ATP, and Pi in 30 healthy humans (18 female) in the morning, in the afternoon, and while napping (n = 15) versus awake controls (n = 10). Levels of PCr (2.40 mM at 9 A.M.) decreased by 7.0 ± 0.8% (p = 7.1 × 10−6, t = −5.5) in the left thalamus between 9 A.M. and 5 P.M. Inversely, Pi (0.74 mM at 9 A.M.) increased by 17.1 ± 5% (p = 0.005, t = 3.1) and pH levels dropped by 0.14 ± 0.07 (p = 0.002; t = 3.6). Following a 20 min nap after 5 P.M., local PCr, Pi, and pH were restored to morning levels. We did not find respective significant changes in the contralateral thalamus or in other investigated brain regions. Left hemispheric PCr was signficantly lower than right hemispheric PCr only at 5 P.M. in the thalamus and at all conditions in the temporal region. Thus, cerebral daytime-related and sleep-related molecular changes are accessible in vivo. Prominent changes were identified in the thalamus. This region is heavily relied on for a series of energy-consuming tasks, such as the relay of sensory information to the cortex. Furthermore, our data confirm that lateralization of brain function is regionally dynamic and includes PCr.
Humans with alcohol use disorder typically abstain due to the negative consequences associated with excessive drinking, and exposure to contexts previously associated with alcohol use can trigger relapse. We employed a rat model that captures a characteristic of this human condition: namely voluntary abstinence from alcohol use due to contingent punishment. There is substantial variability in the propensity to relapse following extended periods of abstinence, and this is a critical feature preventing the successful treatment of alcohol use disorder. Here we examined relapse following acute or prolonged abstinence. In male alcohol preferring P rats, we found an increased propensity to relapse in Context B, the punishment context after prolonged abstinence. Next, we found that neither alcohol intake history nor the motivational strength of alcohol predicted the propensity to relapse. We next examined the putative circuitry of context-induced relapse to alcohol seeking following prolonged abstinence using Fos as a marker of neuronal activation. The anterior insular cortex (AI) was the only brain region examined where Fos expression correlated with alcohol seeking behavior in Context B after prolonged abstinence. Finally, we used local infusion of GABAA and GABAB receptor agonists (muscimol + baclofen) to show a causal role of the AI in context-induced relapse in Context B, the punishment context after prolonged abstinence. Our results show that there is substantial individual variability in the propensity to relapse in the punishment-associated context after prolonged abstinence, and this is mediated by activity in the AI.
The capacity of meta-learning algorithms to quickly adapt to a variety of tasks, including ones they did not experience during meta-training, has been a key factor in the recent success of these methods on few-shot learning problems. This particular advantage of using meta-learning over standard supervised or reinforcement learning is only well founded under the assumption that the adaptation phase does improve the performance of our model on the task of interest. However, in the classical framework of meta-learning, this constraint is only mildly enforced, if not at all, and we only see an improvement on average over a distribution of tasks. In this paper, we show that the adaptation in an algorithm like MAML can significantly decrease the performance of an agent in a meta-reinforcement learning setting, even on a range of meta-training tasks. 
The Earth Mover's Distance (EMD) is a state-of-the art metric for comparing probability distributions. The high distinguishability offered by the EMD comes at a high cost in computational complexity. Therefore, linear-complexity approximation algorithms have been proposed to improve its scalability. However, these algorithms are either limited to vector spaces with only a few dimensions or require the probability distributions to populate the vector space sparsely. We propose novel approximation algorithms that overcome both of these limitations, yet still achieve linear time complexity. All our algorithms are data parallel, and therefore, we can take advantage of massively parallel computing engines, such as Graphics Processing Units (GPUs). The experiments on MNIST images show that the new algorithms can perform a billion distance computations in less than a minute using a single GPU. On the popular text-based 20 Newsgroups dataset, the new algorithms are four orders of magnitude faster than the state-of-the-art FastEMD library and match its search accuracy. 
